net/unicoap: Unified and Modular CoAP Stack: Parser and Message APIs (pt 1) (#21390)
RIOT-OS/RIOT: sys/net/application_layer/unicoap/docs/doc.md

@defgroup net_unicoap unicoap: Unified CoAP Suite
@ingroup  net
@brief    Send requests and create server resources using the Constrained Application Protocol across different transports
@{

Module. Specify `USEMODULE += unicoap` in your application's Makefile.

@warning `unicoap` is work in progress. Not all functionality is implemented in RIOT yet, however
the documentation already exists. Do not expect everything to work yet.

`unicoap` is RIOT's unified and modular framework for communication via the Constrained Application

> Protocol. `unicoap` supports for different transports and several CoAP features, enabled by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Protocol. `unicoap` supports different transports and several CoAP features, enabled by
```

> a **layered** and **modular** design. Support for each CoAP transport, such as UDP, is available through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a **layered** and **modular** design. Support for each CoAP transport, such as UDP, is available through so-called
```

[_drivers_](@ref net_unicoap_drivers).

> `unicoap` aims to to replace [`gcoap`](@ref net_gcoap),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`unicoap` aims to eventually replace [`gcoap`](@ref net_gcoap),
```

[`nanocoap`](@ref net_nanocoap), and [`nanocoap_sock`](@ref net_nanosock), in favor of
a more beginner-friendly and easily extensible design.

To configure `unicoap`, go to [the compile-time configuration](@ref net_unicoap_config).
<!--
FIXME: undefined references, upcoming PR
If you are already using `unicoap` und want to go the extra mile, head to
@ref net_unicoap_optimizing.

> For extending or debugging internals, read more on this frameworks internal mechanics in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For extending or debugging internals, read more on this framework's internal mechanics in the
```

> @ref net_unicoap_developer.

Reviewer: Would that be `net_unicoap_internal` or something else? If not, should internals be linked somewhere?

-->

## CoAP

The [Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7252)
is a lightweight alternative to HTTP. HTTP as a general-purpose application protocol carries a

> significant overhead and would thus be problematic for IoT networks with limited bandwidth and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
significant overhead and is thus problematic for IoT networks with limited bandwidth and
```
